meet the horsepower monsters project
Camaro no it doesn't look like much and
it sounds worse we're already planning
an engine swap for this car but in the
meantime a repair for that exhaust leak
is definitely in order when I bought
this car on eBay you can tell the engine
won't wait but at least it sounded ok
the ride home was about a hundred miles
and all the way the exhaust leak started
and now just a couple weeks later this
is what you get
so he goes to the top of the list
the solution at least for me is to
install a set of stage 8 header bolts
they lock in place so once you get them
installed and not going to back off the
beer step one is to get the old headers
off and make sure that the source of the
leak isn't a cracked header flange or a
broken wheel we're lucky in this case
those grungy headers may be ugly but
they're still good it's just a couple of
loose bolts and exhaust gasket that's
been burped just a little bit beyond
repaired going in their place will be a
new pair of chromatic armor-clad exhaust
gaskets the steel outer layers can shrug
off up to 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit so
another burnt gasket won't be an issue
the stage 8 header bolts use a unique
three-piece system to eliminate the
chance of any boat backing out there's
the bolt itself and a retainer machined
to fit over the bolts hex then a spring
clip snaps into the groove cut into the
head of the boat the locks the retainer
employees before installing the new
exhaust gaskets I've already cleaned up
the header flanges and started to of the
stage eight header bolts loosely on the
outside ends of the flanges the gasket
just drops into place and hangs on the
bolts now we can add a dab of anti-seize
on the threads and run the rest of the
fasteners in place bolting the header up
tight in the process
once the header bolts are on the next
step is to install the retainer there's
a semicircular notch cut out of each
then creates clearance for the header to
now the header bolt can't rotate because
the retainer will hit the tube once the
retainer is on pop the spring clip and
the machine groove on the head of the
boat and you're all set
in some places you may find that the
header tube is too close to the boat
this situation it's okay to grind some
clearance on your pants and here's a
look at the finished assembly now this
wouldn't be the horsepower monster if we
didn't plan to put a much more extreme
engine package in this Camaro that's in
the works and we'll move the stage eight
fasteners over to the new engine when
that goes in but for now at least the
exhaust leak is gone and we don't have
to worry about it coming back again